Add taylor-green matrix-free and matrix-based example (#1036)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/examples/incompressible-flow/3d-taylor-green-vortex/3d-taylor-green-vortex.rst

  u_{y} &= -cos(x)*sin(y)*cos(z)\\
  u_{z} &= 0 \\
  p &=  \frac{1}{16}*(cos(2x)+cos(2y))*(cos(2z)+2)

In this case, the vortex, which is initially 2D, will decay by generating smaller 3D turbulent structures (vortex tubes, rings and sheets). This decay can be monitored through the total kinetic energy of the system. Since the simulation domain is periodic, it can be demontrated that the time derative of the total kinetic energy :math:`E_k` is directly related to the enstrophy :math:`\mathcal{E}` such that:

.. math::

  \frac{\mathrm{d}E_K}{\mathrm{d}t} &=  \mathcal{E} \\
  E_k &= \frac{1}{\Omega} \int_{\Omega} \frac{\mathbf{u}\cdot \mathbf{u}}{2} \mathrm{d}\Omega \\
  \mathcal{E} &= \frac{1}{\Omega} \int_{\Omega} \frac{\mathbf{\omega}\cdot \mathbf{\omega}}{2} \mathrm{d}\Omega

where :math:`\mathbf{\omega}=\nabla \times \mathbf{u}` is the vorticity. The results we obtain are compared to reference spectral results extracted **Wang et al 2013**. `[2] <https://doi.org/10.1002/fld.3767>`_

--------------
Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~

The ``mesh`` subsection specifies the computational grid:

.. code-block:: text

  subsection mesh
    set type               = dealii

>     set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle

Author: ```suggestion
    set grid type          = hyper_rectangle
```

      set reuse matrix            = true
      set matrix tolerance        = 0.01
    end
  end

Matrix-based - Linear Solver 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since this is a transient problem, the linear solver can be relatively simple. We use the GMRES iterative solver with ILU preconditioning and a low fill level of 0.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection linear solver
    subsection fluid dynamics
      set verbosity               = verbose
      set method                  = gmres
      set max iters               = 200
      set max krylov vectors      = 200
      set relative residual       = 1e-4
      set minimum residual        = 1e-12
      set ilu preconditioner fill               = 0
      set ilu preconditioner absolute tolerance = 1e-12
      set ilu preconditioner relative tolerance = 1.00
    end
  end

Matrix-free  - Non-linear Solver 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The non-linear solver used in the matrix-free solver is straightforward. We use Newton's method with a tolerance of :math:`10^{-3}`.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection non-linear solver
    subsection fluid dynamics
      set tolerance      = 1e-3
      set verbosity      = verbose
    end

>   end

Author: can't really prm indent a .rst file...

| .. raw:: html                                                                                                                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                    |
|    <iframe width="520" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GGij2g_yz5g?si=Q81lcHyPd9ONxqT4"  frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> |
|                                                                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Using the ``enstrophy.dat`` and ``kinetic_energy.dat`` files generated by Lethe, the temporal decay of the kinetic energy can be monitored. First, we calculate the time-derivative of the kinetic energy by invoking the first script present in the example folder:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   python3 calculate_dissipation_rate.py -i kinetic_energy.dat -o output.dat

Author: I would rather not do that because that depends on the path you  are in... It was just to show an example of how to launch it, I'm not expecting people to copy paste the full command...

Then, by invoking the second script present in the example, a plot comparing the kinetic energy decay with the enstrophy is generated:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   python3 plot_dissipation_rate.py -ke kinetic_energy_decay.dat -ens enstrophy.dat -v 0.000625

Author: Same as above. I'd rather not babysit to such an extent the reader.

====================
Taylor-Green Vortex
====================

> This example showcases another canonicall fluid mechanics problem, the Taylor-Green vortex.  This examples features both the traditional matrix-based solver within Lethe ( ``lethe-fluid``) and the matrix-free solver  (``lethe-fluid-matrix-free``) which is more computationnaly efficient, especially for high-order elements (Q2 and above). Post-processing capabilities for enstrophy and kinetic energy are also demonstrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example showcases another canonical fluid mechanics problem: the Taylor-Green vortex.  This example features both the traditional matrix-based solver within Lethe ( ``lethe-fluid``) and the matrix-free solver  (``lethe-fluid-matrix-free``) which is more computationally efficient, especially for high-order elements (Q2 and above). Post-processing capabilities for enstrophy and kinetic energy are also demonstrated.
```

-----------------------

The Taylor–Green vortex is an unsteady flow of a decaying vortex, which has an exact closed form solution of the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations in Cartesian coordinates. It is named after the British physicist and mathematician Geoffrey Ingram Taylor and his collaborator A. E. Green [1]. In the present case, we simulate one Taylor-Green vortex at a Reynolds number of 1600 in a domain :math:`\Omega = [-\pi,\pi]\times[-\pi,\pi]\times[-\pi,\pi]` using periodic boundary conditions.

The three velocity components :math:`[u_x,u_y,u_z]^T` and the pressure :math:`p` are specified at time :math:`t=0` by:

.. math::

  u_{x} &= sin(x)*cos(y)*cos(z) \\
  u_{y} &= -cos(x)*sin(y)*cos(z)\\
  u_{z} &= 0 \\
  p &=  \frac{1}{16}*(cos(2x)+cos(2y))*(cos(2z)+2)

In this case, the vortex, which is initially 2D, will decay by generating smaller 3D turbulent structures (vortex tubes, rings and sheets). This decay can be monitored through the total kinetic energy of the system. Since the simulation domain is periodic, it can be demontrated that the time derative of the total kinetic energy :math:`E_k` is directly related to the enstrophy :math:`\mathcal{E}` such that:

> with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. math::

>   \frac{\mathrm{d}E_K}{\mathrm{d}t} &=  \mathcal{E} \\

Reviewer: Isn't there a minus missing here?
```suggestion
  \frac{\mathrm{d}E_K}{\mathrm{d}t} &=  \mathcal{E} \\
```

Author: Yeah either there or in the definition of the enstrophy, but most likely there.

Author: ```suggestion
  \frac{\mathrm{d}E_K}{\mathrm{d}t} &=  -\mathcal{E} \\
```

  E_k &= \frac{1}{\Omega} \int_{\Omega} \frac{\mathbf{u}\cdot \mathbf{u}}{2} \mathrm{d}\Omega \\
  \mathcal{E} &= \frac{1}{\Omega} \int_{\Omega} \frac{\mathbf{\omega}\cdot \mathbf{\omega}}{2} \mathrm{d}\Omega

> where :math:`\mathbf{\omega}=\nabla \times \mathbf{u}` is the vorticity. The results we obtain are compared to reference spectral results extracted **Wang et al 2013**. `[2] <https://doi.org/10.1002/fld.3767>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`\mathbf{\omega}=\nabla \times \mathbf{u}` is the vorticity. The results we obtain are compared to reference spectral results extracted from **Wang et al 2013** `[2] <https://doi.org/10.1002/fld.3767>`_.
```

--------------
Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~

The ``mesh`` subsection specifies the computational grid:

.. code-block:: text

  subsection mesh
    set type               = dealii
    set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle

>     set grid arguments     = 1, 1, 1: -3.14159265359, -3.14159265359, -3.14159265359 : 3.14159265359, 3.14159265359, 3.14159265359 : true

Reviewer: In a more concise way:
```suggestion
    set grid arguments     = 1 : -3.14159265359 : 3.14159265359 : true
```

The last parameter specifies the ``initial refinement`` of the grid. Indicating an ``initial refinement=5`` implies that the initial mesh is refined 5 times. In 3D, each cell is divided by 8 per refinement. Consequently, the final grid is made of 32768 cells.

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``boundary conditions`` subsection establishes the constraints on different parts of the domain:

.. code-block:: text

  subsection boundary conditions
    set number = 3
    subsection bc 0
      set type               = periodic
      set id                 = 0
      set periodic_id        = 1
      set periodic_direction = 0
    end
    subsection bc 1
      set type               = periodic
      set id                 = 2
      set periodic_id        = 3
      set periodic_direction = 1
    end
    subsection bc 2
      set type               = periodic
      set id                 = 4
      set periodic_id        = 5
      set periodic_direction = 2
    end
  end

> First, the ``number`` of boundary conditions to be applied must be specified. For each boundary condition, the ``id`` of the boundary as well as its ``type`` must be specified. All boundaries are periodic. The ``x-`` (id=0) is periodic with the ``x+``boundary (id=1), the ``y-`` (id=2) is periodic with the ``y+`` boundary (id=3) and so on and so forth. For each periodic boundary condition, the periodic direction must be specified. A periodic direction of ``0`` implies that the normal direction of the wall is the :math:`\mathbf{e}_x` vector, ``1`` implies that it's the :math:`\mathbf{e}_y`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, the ``number`` of boundary conditions to be applied must be specified. For each boundary condition, the ``id`` of the boundary as well as its ``type`` must be specified. All boundaries are periodic. The ``x-`` (id=0) is periodic with the ``x+`` boundary (id=1), the ``y-`` (id=2) is periodic with the ``y+`` boundary (id=3) and so on and so forth. For each periodic boundary condition, the periodic direction must be specified. A periodic direction of ``0`` implies that the normal direction of the wall is the :math:`\mathbf{e}_x` vector, ``1`` implies that it's the :math:`\mathbf{e}_y`.
```

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The Reynolds number of 1600 is set solely using the kinematic viscosity since the reference velocity is one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Reynolds number of 1600 is set solely using the kinematic viscosity since the reference velocity is one:
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection physical properties
    set number of fluids = 1
    subsection fluid 0
      set kinematic viscosity = 0.000625
    end
  end

FEM Interpolation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The results obtained for the Taylor-Green vortex are highly dependent on the numerical dissipation that occurs within the CFD scheme. Generally, high-order methods outperform traditional second-order accurate methods for this type of flow. In the present case, we will investigate the usage of both second and third degree polynomial.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection FEM
        set velocity order = 2 #3 for Q3
        set pressure order = 2 #3 for Q3
    end

Post-processing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: text

  subsection post-processing
    set verbosity                = verbose
    set calculate enstrophy      = true
    set calculate kinetic energy = true
  end

To monitor the kinetic energy and the enstrophy, we set both calculation to ``true`` in the post-processing section.

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``simulation control`` subsection controls the flow of the simulation. To maximise the temporal accuracy of the simulation, we use a third order ``bdf3`` scheme. Results are written every 2 time-step. To ensure a more adequate visualization of the high-order elements, we set ``subdivision=3``. This will allow Paraview to render the high-order solutions with more fidelity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``simulation control`` subsection controls the flow of the simulation. To maximise the temporal accuracy of the simulation, we use a third order ``bdf3`` scheme. Results are written every 2 time-steps. To ensure a more adequate visualization of the high-order elements, we set ``subdivision=3``. This will allow Paraview to render the high-order solutions with more fidelity.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection non-linear solver
    subsection fluid dynamics
      set solver                  = inexact_newton
      set verbosity               = verbose
      set tolerance               = 1e-3
      set reuse matrix            = true
      set matrix tolerance        = 0.01
    end
  end

Matrix-based - Linear Solver 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since this is a transient problem, the linear solver can be relatively simple. We use the GMRES iterative solver with ILU preconditioning and a low fill level of 0.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection linear solver
    subsection fluid dynamics
      set verbosity               = verbose
      set method                  = gmres
      set max iters               = 200
      set max krylov vectors      = 200
      set relative residual       = 1e-4
      set minimum residual        = 1e-12
      set ilu preconditioner fill               = 0
      set ilu preconditioner absolute tolerance = 1e-12
      set ilu preconditioner relative tolerance = 1.00
    end
  end

Matrix-free  - Non-linear Solver 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The non-linear solver used in the matrix-free solver is straightforward. We use Newton's method with a tolerance of :math:`10^{-3}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The non-linear solver used in the matrix-free solver is straightforward. We use Newton's method with a tolerance of :math:`10^{-3}`.
```

  subsection linear solver
    subsection fluid dynamics
      set method            = gmres
      set max iters         = 100
      set relative residual = 1e-4
      set minimum residual  = 1e-7
      set preconditioner    = gcmg
      set verbosity         = verbos
      
      #MG parameters
      set mg verbosity       = quiet
      set mg min level       = -1
      set mg level min cells = 16

      #smoother
      set mg smoother iterations = 10
      set mg smoother eig estimation = true
      
      # Eigenvalue estimation parameters
      set eig estimation degree          = 3
      set eig estimation smoothing range = 5
      set eig estimation cg n iterations = 20
      set eig estimation verbosity       = verbose

      #coarse-grid solver
      set mg coarse grid max iterations     = 2000
      set mg coarse grid tolerance          = 1e-7
      set mg coarse grid reduce             = 1e-4
      set mg coarse grid max krylov vectors = 30
      set mg coarse grid preconditioner     = ilu
      set ilu preconditioner fill               = 1
      set ilu preconditioner absolute tolerance = 1e-10
      set ilu preconditioner relative tolerance = 1.00
    end
  end

> We set ``mg verbosity = quiet`` to prevent logging of the multigrid parameters during the simulation. Setting ``mg min level = -1`` ensures that the ``mg level min cells=16`` parameter is used to determine the coarsest level. It is important to ensure that the Taylor-Green vortex has sufficient cell on the coarsest level since periodic boundary conditions are used. Indeed, using a coarsest level with a single cell can lead to a problematic situation where too few degrees of freedom are available on the coarsest level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set ``mg verbosity = quiet`` to prevent logging of the multigrid parameters during the simulation. Setting ``mg min level = -1`` ensures that the ``mg level min cells=16`` parameter is used to determine the coarsest level. It is important to ensure that the Taylor-Green vortex has sufficient cells on the coarsest level since periodic boundary conditions are used. Indeed, using a coarsest level with a single cell can lead to a problematic situation where too few degrees of freedom are available on the coarsest level.
```

The ``smoother``, ``Eigenvalue estimation parameters`` and ``coarse-grid solver`` subsections are explained in the **Theory Guide** (under construction).

----------------------
Running the Simulation
----------------------
Launching the simulation is as simple as specifying the executable name and the parameter file. Assuming that the ``lethe-fluid`` or ``lethe-fluid-matrix-free`` executables are within your path, the matrix-based simulation scan be launched by typing:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np n_proc lethe-fluid tgv-matrix-based.prm

and the matrix-free simulations can be launched by typing

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np n_proc lethe-fluid-matrix-free tgv-matrix-free.prm 

> For a 5 initial refinement (:math:`32^3` Q2 cells), the matrix-based solver takes around 1 hour and 20 minutes on 16 cores while the matrix-free solver takes less than 20 minutes. Running the same problem, but in Q3 (:math:`32^3` Q3 cells), the matri-free solver takes less than 2 hours while the matrix-based solver takes close to a day and consumes a tremendous amount of ram (approx. 80 GB). If you have 64 GB of ram, you can run an even finer mesh (:math:`64^3` Q3 cells) using the matrix-free solver in approximatively 16 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a 5 initial refinement (:math:`32^3` Q2 cells), the matrix-based solver takes around 1 hour and 20 minutes on 16 cores while the matrix-free solver takes less than 20 minutes. Running the same problem, but in Q3 (:math:`32^3` Q3 cells), the matrix-free solver takes less than 2 hours while the matrix-based solver takes close to a day and consumes a tremendous amount of ram (approx. 80 GB). If you have 64 GB of ram, you can run an even finer mesh (:math:`64^3` Q3 cells) using the matrix-free solver in approximately 16 hours.
```

----------------------
Results and Discussion
----------------------

> The flow patterns generated by the Taylor-Green vortex are quite complex. The following animation displays the evolution of velcoity iso-contours as the vortex break downs and generate smaller structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flow patterns generated by the Taylor-Green vortex are quite complex. The following animation displays the evolution of velocity iso-contours as the vortex break downs and generates smaller structures.
```

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. raw:: html                                                                                                                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                    |
|    <iframe width="520" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GGij2g_yz5g?si=Q81lcHyPd9ONxqT4"  frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> |
|                                                                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> Using the ``enstrophy.dat`` and ``kinetic_energy.dat`` files generated by Lethe, the temporal decay of the kinetic energy can be monitor. First, we calculate the time-derivative of the kinetic energy by invoking the script present in the example folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``enstrophy.dat`` and ``kinetic_energy.dat`` files generated by Lethe, the temporal decay of the kinetic energy can be monitored. First, we calculate the time-derivative of the kinetic energy by invoking the first script present in the example folder:
```

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  python3 calculate_dissipation_rate.py -i kinetic_energy.dat -o output.dat

> Then, by invoking the script present in the example, a plot compairing the kinetic energy decay with the enstrophy is generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, by invoking the second script present in the example, a plot comparing the kinetic energy decay with the enstrophy is generated:
```

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  python3 plot_dissipation_rate.py -ke kinetic_energy_decay.dat -ens enstrophy.dat -v 0.000625

.. note:
 

>   A nice plot with a zoomed in section can be generated by adding the argument `-z True` to the command above.

Reviewer: There is something wrong with this note because it does not appear in the documentation...

Reviewer: Found the issue:
```suggestion
.. note::
 
  A nice plot with a zoomed in section can be generated by adding the argument ``-z True`` to the command above.
```

The following plot shows the decay of kinetic energy as measured

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/dissipation_comparison_Q2_32.png                                                              |
|     :width: 500                                                                                                   |
|     :alt: In this figure, the kinetic energy decay is compared to the enstrophy for a 32^3 Q2Q2 mesh.             |

> |           The two curves should be identical in the absence of numerical dissipation                              |                         

Reviewer: This descriptions are not really appearing anywhere... they just add a line under the figure. Maybe we can remove them?

Author: I think it's a bit overkill. It was a lot of effort to add that and align the table if it's only going to be used when figures don't display, I'll remove it.

By refining the mesh once more (:math:`64^3` Q3Q3), we recover the right kinetic energy decay, but we still observe significant numerical dissipation. These results are thus implicit LES where the SUPG/PSPG stabilization is acting as the subgrid scale model and mimics the kinetic energy decay that is not captured by the mesh.

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/dissipation_comparison_Q3_64.png                                                              |
|     :width: 500                                                                                                   |
|     :alt: In this figure, the kinetic energy decay is compared to the enstrophy for a 64^3 Q3Q3 mesh.             |
|           The two curves should be identical in the absence of numerical dissipation                              |                         
|                                                                                                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> Increasing the refinement once more (:math:`128^3` Q3Q3), we note the perfect agreement between the kinetic energy decay, the enstrophy and the reference results. These results constitute Direct Numerical Simulation (DNS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increasing the refinement once more (:math:`128^3` Q3Q3), allows us to obtain perfect agreement between the kinetic energy decay, the enstrophy and the reference results. These results constitute a Direct Numerical Simulation (DNS):
```
